many people claim to be gaming on a
potato but very few have the
spuds to actually do it and I know what
you guys are thinking lonus it's easy
you just Mash a little bitty raspberry
pie into
a and boom it's done but come on that's
small fries we want the full starch
experience friends I'm talking a full
Windows PC in one of these and since
it's a plant well it's going to need be
watered which oh God we're liquid
cooling it that's just the beginning
when we're done this potato is going to
play balers Gate 3 cyberpunk Halo
infinite and sponsor Segway simulator
2000 oh I love that game almost as much
as I love thorum their rings and watches
are made from unique materials like
gibian meteorite and ethical naturally
shed antlers check them out at the link
below and use code LT for 20% off our
biggest problem for this project
ironically is that potatoes are very
small so initially we set out to find
bigger potatoes but in spite of some
promising leads finding one big enough
to fit a full fat gaming system was a
fruitless Endeavor get it even our hand
selected super spuds are much smaller
than a standard Mini ITX motherboard so
we turned our attention to finding a
smaller computer and that we did meet
the minis forum M 680 it's got eight
zen3 plus cores that turbo up to 4.7 GHz
and Radeon 6 ADM rdna 3 Graphics it's
shockingly powerful for such a small
package the whole package is just 10
Pringles tall we're going to have a link
below if you want to pick up one of your
own of course even at that size it's not
small enough for us so we'll be taking
it apart with this prototype LT
Precision screwdriver complete with bit
storage and hybrid ceramic bearing top
yes yes you will sign up for a
notification at LTD store.com got to
love that nice strong
magnet I couldn't believe how small this
computer was originally we had another
mini Forum that is about 14 cm uh both
directions and that was small to me but
uh when we got this one in I was blown
away I didn't know computers came this
small this is Tiny so small actually the
power of a gaming PC in the palm of my
hand now I've Got The Power of this
Cooling solution in the palm of my hand
here okay pop that out oh liquid metal
on the stock cooling solution after the
issues we had with it on custom builds I
just never thought this stuff would go
mainstream but with the right protective
measures like these covers for the
surface mount components and these
gaskets it seems like manufacturers can
make it work even big ones like Asus and
Sony it really does help you get the
most out of a small cooling solution of
course we apparently will not be using
this one because we like playing h on
hard
mode hey there we go oh cool they've got
a main board up here and then they've
got a daughter board down here that's
handling all of the io including the
micro SD slot IO is um going to be a
challenge huh USB 4 is truly incredible
we actually only really need two USB 4S
to go in one for power and one that's
going to go to a dongle for everything
else now that we've got the whole thing
apart I can show you how the two boards
go back back together there we go and
that's it CPU 32 gigs lpddr5 memory a
terabyte of pcie Gen 4 storage and even
USB 4 so we could hook up an external
GPU to this thing if we really wanted to
we don't want to though because we want
it all to fit in here so without further
Ado let's throw this little guy into the
frying pan figuratively of course
unless now that we found a computer
small enough we need to to select our
potato oh any one of these is fine any
of these should do I think there's some
that are better C this one she's soft
though uh how long have we had these
potatoes about a month they're a little
old how about this guy that's pretty
that's a pretty good he's got a nice
Regal shape to him the it kind of looks
like you uh never thought I'd be asking
this but what's our plan for potato
carving my original plan was to slice
the potato in half and then just scoop
it out with an ice cream scoop oh yeah
exactly all my all my testing
okay David's getting a cutting board
right now but the way I see it it's not
necessary not for a fruit ninja like me
damn I actually kind of nailed that this
cutting board is much fancier than I
expected oh wow cool swag Corsair anyway
uh which way do you find its best um
there's no method to this radness it's
just Madness you'll want to be careful
when you get close to the edges
sometimes it can kind of just jump and
then rip some skin off but I see the
potato or of my hand uh yes who would
have thought a potato has this much
juice speaking of now that we've worked
out size our next problem is that
potatoes
are well food uh you know boil them mash
them stick them in a stew however you
skin them they're not an ideal
environment for computer or any
electronics for that matter how are we
looking horizontally
uh pretty good good news uh reaching the
iio is not going to be an issue I'm up
yeah like the iio is going like right to
the edge oh wow we chose kind of the
perfect potato I couldn't help noticing
then that I'm hollowing this out too
much maybe airflow baby sure for a water
cooled system sure do we have a fan why
would you need a fan you're water
cooling I keep getting potato juice in
my eye it's good for the skin sure but
is it good for your eyes there's an eye
of the potato the I of the potato it's
the Keen night among you might have
noticed that we were just kind of
willy-nilly
putting this thing in
here to mitigate some of the risk of the
juice shorting out any of the components
on our board we gave it a a battering
like not this like french fries a
battering of conformal coating to
protect it from dangerous potato juices
all while being careful to leave access
to any ports or any contact pins that we
need for the system to function of
course that wasn't the original plan was
it no the original plan was to preserve
the perfect potato before the shoot I
tried dehydrating baking freezing a
vacuum chamber resin a resin vacuum
chamber but nothing really worked no
matter what I did it would rot collapse
or just look disgusting I see that uh so
instead we decided we're just going to
YOLO it do it all on Set For Better or
For Worse uh you're welcome yeah I'd say
that's for better is this even safe let
alone food safe I wouldn't take a
bite any who another part of the
original plan was to transplant the
entire cooling system from the mini
Forum just to make our jobs a little bit
easier but that's dead too huh yeah it
turns out problem number three potatoes
aren't very good for cooling in fact
they're kind of good at insulating so we
had Justin our resident mad scientist
fabricate this absolutely gorgeous water
block did an amazing job it look so good
even like the design on the top I don't
know if that was intentional but it
looked really good the coal plate is
machined from Billet copper and then the
rest is resin 3D printed now I'm told
I'm not allowed to take it apart for you
guys since the O-ring is kind of fragile
but we've got a render and you guys can
actually find the plans for this in the
video description if you ever need
to this for some
reason uh we ended up having to
reinforce the seal with some CLA to
prevent leakage but the rest of the
parts are recycled from our laptop water
cooling Adventure don't watch that video
right now if you have a weak stomach
though or if you want to witness history
because if you want that you're going to
have to watch this video yeah okay
Moment of Truth the blocks
[Music]
on it fits perfect it actually does fit
really really well all we've got to do
is carve out some IO you'll have to let
us know in the comments is it game t or
put G now David question for you do we
need to get at any of the other IO or is
this side enough that's all we need we
can power it through this dongle we can
do up to 90 Watts okay to this let's
give it a shot first boot that's my
computer hey don't mock my computer no I
love it from my research I don't think
anyone has actually built a gaming
potato no I didn't manage to find one
either so world's first baby which is
kind of shocking with how many times
it's been Meed y I was expecting to find
like a hundred different YouTube videos
about it and then there's basically
homeless who's going to just do it way
better than us you can't do better than
this don't challenge him no no no you
can plug it yeah you can plug it right
into the dungle or I can plug it right
into the potato okay I have proper
peripherals but for this part we'll use
these proper peripherals oh God how do
we power it on I guess is there just
there's a light there is a power switch
and there should be a light or there
wasn't the case okay there's a light we
know we don't have the water cooling
hooked up yet but hopefully we can at
least just get a post out of it how long
does this thing take to post it doesn't
take that long you're to come on turn up
okay it's off that's good o it's really
hot it's really hot that's a good sign
though right uh I mean yeah but also we
didn't get an output let's get the water
cooling hooked up outside of the potato
then yes real quick real quick we've
gone with a dual 40 mm radiator which
for this kind of thermal load should be
enough to run completely passively and
then this adorable little pump from the
water cooled laptop setup oh
there's water all over the board what
happened it leaked fudge uh glass half
full you guys get to see the inside of
the block now I mean theoretically this
board's conformal coated so that's a
good point my bigger concern is just
that we didn't get an HDMI output from
this thing that's fair our contact with
the Dy is actually not great it's
probably fine just need to put some more
thermal compound on here uh let's just
test it without it being installed and
see what
happens oh my god did it work okay makes
that that's a sensible picture by the
way we're kind of bringing it back but
in a more everyday wearable form H
coming soon to LTT store I'm going to
find the leak I'm going to stamp it out
that's that's how you stop a leak you
just stop
leaking oh
snap literal oh no yeah how long does it
take to resin print a new top as we're
about to find
out while we're waiting for our new
block to print let's talk about the
advantages of resin printing you can do
more complex shapes with higher detail
it's low cost uh as well as much faster
than Machining from acrylic and it's
just watertight which is kind of
important when we're making a water
block so it's a much better choice than
fdm printing this is going to take about
40 minutes that's pretty fast once we're
through that we're going to wash it and
cure it uh and we're going to get back
to it and hopefully finish this today
the downside to resin printing as we
experienced it can be brittle depending
on the resin you use We Now using tough
resin which should give us a little more
Linus proofness and the other big
downside is just it's a mess and there's
fumes it can be kind of annoying when
you're done a print just dealing with
the leftover resin getting it back and
you know
this watertight could you 3D print some
water cooling tubes are we making a
video on that right right
now the top is not the same as the
previous one that was printed oh I see
it doesn't have the divider in the
middle which quite honestly is not going
to make a difference fantastic what
could go wrong yall ready for
[Music]
this uh these holes are really small are
you guys aware of that uh yeah it's look
the blocks not well that's why it
cracked are you aware of that I wasn't
aware of that oh here look uh Justin
flew pretty close to the Sun on the size
of these holes and you can see that's
actually probably what caused the
cracking we did a rush cure job so the
resin's still a little malleable oh well
that's good it's good this is going to
go it's going to go it's a goer not a
shower without it being cracked which is
a plus time to mount this bad boy now
just a gosh darn second
here
it's not as thick as the old one and the
screws are too tall we can fix that we
will never be able to unscrew and
rescrew them though cuz this will mangle
the
threads
oh hey and we've got much better contact
with the Dy this time I wonder if those
previous screws were sticking through a
little bit as well oh maybe there it
is that's what I'm talking about looks
like cheese I want to eat it it's an
appropriate topping for a potato
certainly oh man I wish I had the
foresight what to make a block out of
cheese can formal coating cool or what
the fact that we just spilled water all
over this board and here we are like
half an hour later just using it why
doesn't everything have conformal
coating on it cuz it's expensive it adds
another step and it's more difficult to
repair after the fact oh that makes
sense so there are reasons I'm just
start covering everything I own in
formal coating do you have like a spitt
problem is there a reason really excited
when I game is there a reason your
electronics get wet
oh no way I think we're good tough resin
sure well it's working oh we need to
make a little cutout for the tubes oh
yeah we need quite the cutout for the
tubes oh balls so David do you want to
eyeball this sure so right about yeah
sure
okay he looks like he's got braces who
knew a potato case could be so modular
man water cooling my pumpkin next
Halloween uh did we have any thoughts
for how to like seal up our case like
what about hot glue would hot glue H hot
glue is worse hot glue is worse all
right oh so you've actually put I've
tried measurable R&D into this
everything to try and make potatoes
happen if you can pull on the tubes a
little bit just to yeah oh boy oh yeah
there we there oh yeah there oh there we
go okay a little
more oh yeah oh yeah oh buddy I mean oh
spoty oh
spoty that's a filthy joke what do you
expect it came out of the ground oh we
need power button oh right no no that's
okay I got a solution for that okay now
you're speaking my my language power
button okay my jwi so this maybe I could
cut a little spot for it after after
first let's make sure this thing works
oh uh uh pump
who all that's left then is to seal up
our potato oh uh oh totally fine yeah
yeah hold on hold on uh see Advanced
repair no we we got to windows before I
bet this just boots this probably just
boots time to seal the deal the only
thing we're missing is some peripherals
oh wow that worked really well that
immediately was like yo you're not
taking this apart anymore okay potato PC
okay okay does it need uh I think we
need a little stand so it doesn't roll
around some potato wedges uh potato
wedges I get it
what about okay our potato fry monitor
bezel oh my goodness wow David you um
you made that hash brown desk mat
baby oh what oh what why
oh and what better Mouse to use than a
potato Mouse did you guys get a Makey
Makey or something no it's just it's
just a mouse they took the insides out I
conformal coed it and it it
works I think I can even hear the clicks
yep yeah there it
is surprisingly this does appear to be
tracking serviceably hold on I'm going
to launch a game let's play some uh hold
on the click is a little bit of a
challenge I'm launching Halo infinite
okay here we go the mouse works oh my
God it actually kind of
works
ahh and no self-respecting gamer can
possibly complete their setup without
RGB potato powered
RGB you've got one LED lit yeah r g b
was there not enough current to light
more than one LED so I actually have a
battery powering it currently oh it's
cheating it was really cool when it
first was put together you're lucky I
didn't have time to make the potato
keyboard the mouse is surprisingly
somewhat usable what do you think of the
hash brown desk pad uh it's really it's
kind of unpleasant and greasy but LTT
store when okay what how's our CPU doing
uh we're at 50 right now that's
definitely warmer than we got when we
first tested the system okay but we
wasn't in a potato so change of plans
we're going with doom maternal the goal
one kill I was pretty impressed with the
performance I was getting out of this
thing I was a little bit weired and
doomed cuz I was only getting 25 frames
and I realized raate tracing was
on you know what 25 frames with r
tracing pretty good oh man my like my
arm muscles from how hard it is to push
on the click I am getting 45 55 frames
per
second right
click get up on oh did I get him I think
you did oh no you didn't no I didn't
hold on right click am I oh I'm not not
on the right uh oh yeah yeah yeah I got
Glory kill Glory kill here we go here we
go yes potato gaming boys med pack med
pack oh my my mous fell apart hold on I
got this I can't click it's going toart
no I can't click this has got to be top
10 stupidest things we've ever done no
no top
three I'm so happy I got to be here for
this the mats come to apart oh
no oh W
everything okay but like can we
appreciate for a moment how amazing this
is with root access we're managing some
seriously impressive hash power which of
us is responsible for that line I think
it was a team team thing sorry it was
Big Potato that forced us to put that in
there as much of a meme as this project
was it is a amazing guys what you can do
with a tiny Apu powered PC these days
and I really hope that even if this
wasn't the most practical application of
this this gets your tractor rolling
coming up with cool ideas for fitting
powerful computers in places that they
have no right to be like in this the
world's first peelable case and in this
segue to our sponsor if you guys enjoyed
this if you like janky dumb but
spectacular build you might like our
video where we built compensator 4 with
the most expensive consumer parts we
could get our hands on